# A Glossary of Essential/Found Cryptocurrency Terms.

## Blockchain.
Name given to technology where all transactions are logged to a distributed ledger.

## Block Time

The amount of time between the adding of the next block to the last on a blockchain.
In 2017 Ethereum's blocktime is avergaing at about 18s. Bitcoin is more like 9 minutes.

## Bitcoin.

A contract or program that runs on a blockchain (see above) to allow the exchange of value.

## Bitcoin Cash.

One side of a hard fork in the blockchain code split into two versions. 
[Bitcoin Cash? A Basic Beginners Guide - Blockgeek](https://blockgeeks.com/guides/what-is-bitcoin-cash/)

## Cryptocurrency

A form of currency that uses a cyptographic function to create/provide consensus on the state and integrity of a shared ledger. 

## Currency

An abstraction of value in a form that allows its exchange. A medium of exchange for goods and services. Money. 

## Ether.

The Cryptocurrency that powers the Ethereum blockchain and network.

## Ethereum

A blockchain architecture/instance that runs smart contracts and is powered by the ether cryptocurrency.

## Fungible/Fungibility

Meaning that your ether are as good as mine and exchangeable. Ether are fungible because we agree on a value.

## Ledger

A system of recording transactions and subsequent/iterative changes in value.

## Geth

Geth is software - a golang implementation of the Ethereum-protocol blockchain architecture.

## Gas

Gas is the amount of ether required to power a transaction or contract - it is the fee for/that motivates the adding of a transaction to the block.

## Hash Function

The digital fingerprint generated by a data of any kind or form by a hashing function.

## Immutable/Immutability

The blockchain is immutable - once a transaction is recorded there is no way to take it back or delete it, same goes for a smart contract...once its executed it is there forever.

## Mining

## Mining Pool

## Decentralised Architecture

## Distributed Architecture

## Proof of Work

## Solidity

## Single Source of Truth

## Smart Contracts

## Uncle

Blocks that were very close to being the next block in the chain but weren't. On the ethereum blockchain the mining of these also-rans are rewarded.
